docs: 4.9.0 Release Notes (#10232)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/release-notes/announcements.md

> | The `/clusterprofiles`[API endpoint](/api/introduction) is now deprecated. Use the `/dashboard/clusterprofiles` endpoint instead, which includes improved data retrieval capabilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | _To be announced_   | May 3, 2026       |

Author: ```suggestion
| The `/clusterprofiles`[API endpoint](/api/introduction) is now deprecated. Use the `/dashboard/clusterprofiles` endpoint instead, which includes improved data retrieval capabilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | November 15, 2026  | May 3, 2026       |
```

> | The internal [Ingress Nginx](https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/2025/11/12/ingress-nginx-retirement/) controller used by Palette management plane services is now deprecated. Traefik replaced Nginx as the default management cluster ingress controller starting with Palette 4.8.47. For self-hosted Palette environments [installed using Helm charts](../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/install.md), set `ingress.type` to `traefik` to avoid service disruptions. Refer to [Helm Configuration Reference](../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/palette-helm-ref.md) for more information. <br /> <br /> If you have made custom modifications to the Ingress Nginx configuration in your self-hosted environment, such as custom annotations, load balancer settings, or TLS configurations, these customizations may not carry over automatically and could affect your deployment. Review your ingress configuration before upgrading and [contact our Support team](https://support.spectrocloud.io/) if you need assistance migrating custom ingress settings to Traefik. For installations configured to use DNS, you must also update your records to point to the new Traefik `LoadBalancer` service after upgrading. Refer to the [Upgrade Palette on Kubernetes](../enterprise-version/upgrade/upgrade-k8s/non-airgap.md) guide for details. | May 31, 2026        | May 3, 2026       |

Author: ```suggestion
| The internal [Ingress Nginx](https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/2025/11/12/ingress-nginx-retirement/) controller used by Palette management plane services is now deprecated. Traefik replaced Nginx as the default management cluster ingress controller starting with Palette 4.8.47. For self-hosted Palette environments [installed using Helm charts](../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/install.md), set `ingress.type` to `traefik` to avoid service disruptions. Refer to [Helm Configuration Reference](../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/palette-helm-ref.md) for more information. <br /> <br /> If you have made custom modifications to the Ingress Nginx configuration in your self-hosted environment, such as custom annotations, load balancer settings, or TLS configurations, these customizations may not carry over automatically and could affect your deployment. Review your ingress configuration before upgrading and [contact our Support team](https://support.spectrocloud.io/) if you need assistance migrating custom ingress settings to Traefik. For installations configured to use DNS, you must also update your records to point to the new Traefik `LoadBalancer` service after upgrading. Refer to the [Upgrade Palette on Kubernetes](../enterprise-version/upgrade/upgrade-k8s/non-airgap.md) guide for details. | May 31, 2026        | May 3, 2026       |
| The `/clusterprofiles`[API endpoint](/api/introduction) is now deprecated. Use the `/dashboard/clusterprofiles` endpoint instead, which includes improved data retrieval capabilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | November 15, 2026   | May 3, 2026       |
```
